<link rel='stylesheet' href='../assets/css/main.css'/>

[<< back to main index](../README.md) 

Lab : Learn to manage Avro schema
===============================

## Step 1: Read pom.xml in the kafka-labs directory

Notice the two plugins added for avro schema management using the schema registry.

* kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin - checks compatibility of the 
  features pointing to the Avro Schema Format (avsc) in file src/main/resources/lab08_avro/Clickinfo.avsc.
* avro-maven-plugin - generates avro code for execution.

## Step 2: Inspect the Avro schema file for Clickinfo

This is schema v1 that the producer will use to write to the topic 'avroclicks'
````bash
$ cd ~/dev/kafka-labs
$ cat src/main/resources/x/lab08_avro/Clickinfo.avsc
````

## Step 3: Build the project and run the Avro Consumer
File : `src/main/java/x/lab08_avro/AvroClickStreamConsumer.java`

*  Inspect the source code for AvroClickstreamConsumer.java. Notice the declaration for Clickinfo.
   This is the Java class created for the Avro schema.
   
* Build the Project. 
````bash
$ cd ~/dev/kafka-labs
$ mvn clean package
````

You should see that the target directory has 
classes/x/lab08_avro/Clickinfo.class created. 
````bash
$ ls -l ~/dev/kafka-labs/target/classes/x/lab08_avro
````

It should also be part of the jar:
````bash
$ jar tvf target/kafka-labs-2.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar | grep Clickinfo
````
This class is automatically created by the maven plugin.

Now let's start the consumer from one Terminal (or run it from Eclipse):
````bash
$ java -cp target/kafka-labs-2.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar x.lab08_avro.AvroClickstreamConsumer
````

* The consumer should wait. Once the Producer is started, you should start to see the output appear.


## Step 4: Run the Avro Producer
* Inspect the source code for AvroClickstreamProducer.java. Notice the declaration for Clickinfo.
* Right-click on the AvroClickStreamConsumer.java in Eclipse and run it. Alternatively, 
run it from the command line:
````bash
$ java -cp target/kafka-labs-2.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar x.lab08_avro.AvroClickstreamProducer
````
* Are you seeing the expected outputs on both the Producer and Consumer consoles?


## Step 5: Modify the Avro message schema

* Inspect the file Clickinfoinvalid.avsc in src/main/resources/x/lab08_avro.
* Change the ~/dev/kafka-labs/pom.xml such that kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin AND avro-maven-plugin 
point to 
src/main/resources/x/lab08_avro/Clickinfoinvalid.avsc schema and do the compatibility test

```bash
mvn io.confluent:kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin:5.0.0:test-compatibility
````

* Explain the results. Why is this schema invalid?

* Repeat above with src/main/resources/x/lab8-avro/Clickinfovalid.avsc. What makes this schema valid?  

## Step 6: Update Producer to use Avro schema V2

* Edit AvroClickstreamProducer.java and add the "action" field to the message near line 43:
````
final String action = record.action;
final Clickinfo clickdata = new Clickinfo(timestamp, session,domain,userid,cost,campaign,ip_info,action);

````
* Re-build the AvroClickstreamProducer and run it
* In the consumer console you should see the new field appear in the output. 